Have you ever wanted to become a live
streamer in China? Well, look no
further. Just stumble upon one of these
underground training camps that'll have
you looking like you just walked into a
Teimu factory, but for streamers. The
new dream everybody in China is chasing
right now is becoming a live stream
celebrity. But apparently, the new
master plan that 100% guarantee you
become a famous, successful streamer are
these so-called live streamer training
camps. Yep, actual boot camps designed
to turn regular people into online
celebrities. You sign up, you attend
classes, and then by the end, you're
supposed to walk out like the next
Jackson Wang of live streaming. Sounds
amazing, right? Except there's one small
problem. A lot of these training
programs are basically just expensive
PowerPoint presentations pretending to
be some secret knowledge. They take
extremely basic marketing advice, like
stuff you could learn from like a
10-minute YouTube video, and then they
package it like it's some secret ancient
live streaming technique passed down by
the live streaming monks. From yelling
affirmations like, "Bless me with the
luck of 100k viewers," or, "Bring upon
the tier three gifted subs," to pretty
much turning these live stream schools
into borderline pyramid schemes and
charging people thousands of dollars for
it. This is your only choice. Make sure
you pray to the doin gods every night
for good luck. And the worst ones, they
even go as far as collecting all your
money until you're in debt. And don't
think about escaping or running away
because by then they have all your
personal information. Okay, now because
live streaming became so big in China. I
mean, you literally can retire just from
a couple years of making it big on
there. So, everybody suddenly became an
expert and they suddenly had the secret
formula. I figured out the algorithm.
Yeah, it's giving that energy except
they're charging tuition for it. But
some of these training programs don't
just sell overpriced courses. They
evolved to full-blown pyramid schemes.
And the craziest example was this thing
called Superhost courses that was being
promoted throughout Chinese social
media. And surprise, surprise, the
course costs anywhere from 980
all the way up to 12,800 UN. First, they
hook you with a cheap beginner course, a
399 UN introductory class with seven
sessions. And when you see that price,
people are like, "Hey, that's not bad.
Let's give it a try." But once you're
inside the system, the upselling begins.
Suddenly, they tell you, "Oh, you've
only learned the basics. If you want the
real techniques, you have to move on to
the advanced class. That one cost
3,000." But it doesn't just stop there.
If you want the real knowledge, and I
mean the real real knowledge, you have
to buy a one-on-one coaching session
with a professional streamer that will
cost you 6,999.
We got beginner pack, advanced pack,
ultimate legendary pack. I mean, the
only thing missing here is a limited
time battle pass. So, let me tell you
exactly how these training sessions
look. The trainer starts the class with
a live demonstration. He's like, "Today,
I'm going to sell you these pairs of
shoes. No mistake. No mistake. remember
everything I say in this live room
today. Now, the pitch barely makes any
sense. I mean, it sounded like somebody
generated a last minute script last
second, but the trainer delivers it with
maximum confidence, which is the whole
point because immediately after the
demonstration, he orders every single
student to show their best smile.
Then he tells them to shout live stream
catchphrases like, "Kids, don't miss
your spot. You don't want to miss out.
Don't miss out." almost as if you're
spamming emotes, hoping that at least
one of your viewers is a 12-year-old
behind the screen. And according to him,
if you follow his method, you'll
transform into a human cash machine. He
starts yelling, "To be a streamer, you
must first go crazy and rush forward
without caring about face or reputation.
Just throw your dignity out the window
and just, you know, start streaming in
public and screaming at your phone." And
then they started chanting, "I'm a super
speaker. My live streams will be
incredibly exciting." constantly
shouting affirmations like it'll bring
you good luck and make you famous
overnight. 5 4 3 2 1 5 4 3 2 1
I They keep preaching about how you can
make tens of thousands of millions of
dollars and millions of views overnight
if you just follow his method and just
continue with the course. And if you're
wondering what that method is, just buy
the next course because he promised
he'll teach you how to go viral in just
less than 3 days. And if somehow you
don't, well, that's a skill issue on
your end. You just weren't following the
courses properly. Now, the weirdest part
about these camps isn't even the
promises. It's like the whole atmosphere
and how the trainer pretty much presents
himself. He continuously praises himself
as a super mastermind in live streaming.
And then he shouts, "You are all mine.
Not a single one of you can leave." So,
uh, it's giving live streaming cult more
than course. Then, of course, comes the
money pitch. He reveals a special offer.
The course that normally costs 9,800 is
suddenly discounted to 2,800.
What a steal. But there's a condition.
You have to sign up for two sessions and
you got to start recruiting other people
to continue. So, at that point, it's a
pyramid scheme. The trainer insists that
the course doesn't quite meet platform
requirements, but is still doable, which
is just another way of saying that this
might violate the rules, but let's try
it anyways. Then he starts flexing that
his channel gets over 100,000 views
every day. He says his streams can sell
more than 15,000 UN worth of products in
less than three hours. And apparently
his secret method is to just use looped
audio. They also demonstrate how to
misrepresent the products and deceive
the viewers. For example, he shows how
to hype something up like peanut oil as
a bargain. But then he suggests that you
quietly swap the peanut oil with a
smaller bottle or a different brand. And
if customers complain, no problem at
all. You can return the product except
the fee of returning usually costs half
the price that you bought it for. It's
like when I get Uber Eats and the
delivery fee costs half the price of my
Chick-fil-A. But then people started
asking, "Doesn't this count as consumer
fraud?" Are you kidding me? What's this
silly little guy talking about?
Security, get him out. Out. Don't worry
about him. He's just trying to bring us
all down. People like him, that's what
we call failures. Now round two, guys.
Chant it. We are live streamers. We are
live streamers.
Also, students who actually completed
these courses said that at the end their
follower accounts barely even moved.
They spent all that money and their
accounts still had the same energy of a
group chat you made a year ago for that
one trip. And honestly, watching these
Chinese students study while being live
streamed for like 12 hours straight like
it's the Olympics low-key reminds me of
why learning Chinese from real life
context matters way more. That's why I
recommend Migaku. Because if you learn
Chinese the traditional way, you know
how to say, "Hello, teacher. Today we're
studying lesson 3." But you'd be
completely lost trying to understand a
sleep-deprived senior whispering to your
ear. It's not that dry textbook nonsense
because you're literally learning
Chinese from videos, dramas, and movies
you watch, or even random Chinese
internet clips. You see a word, you
hover over it, boom, instant
translation, pronunciation, example
sentences, flashcard created in one
click.
>> And Migaku actually has structured
Chinese courses from pingion all the way
to grammar and cultural context. Like
after finishing the beginner course,
you'll probably recognize about 80% of
common Chinese words, which is pretty
crazy. They've got tools for characters,
stroke orders, tones, pretty much all
the stuff people struggle with for
Mandarin. But they actually explain it
in a way that doesn't make you want to
quit after day three. Plus, the system
adapts to you, so you're not just
grinding words that you've already
learned 3 days ago, like an NPC. You can
even take live photos of real world
Chinese text, signs, menus, I mean,
auntie propaganda flyers, and straight
up turn it into a lesson. And you can
even specifically learn Cantonese, which
is very rare.
They even have Japanese, Korean,
Spanish, as well as many other
languages. And one subscription gives
you access to all languages. Right now,
you can get 50% off the lifetime plan,
which is access for life. Or grab an
extra free month on the standard and
early access plans. Just use
migoku.com/wani
to support me and let's log back in.
Now, why do most of these students fail
besides the ones who get really, really
lucky? Well, because the people who
understand live streaming, they're not
teaching. They're live streaming.
They're just too busy making money
themselves. The competition in Chinese
live streaming is absolutely brutal. If
anybody discovers a method or a
strategy, they're going to gatekeep it
harder than underground rap. So,
instead, these schools hire instructors
that honestly don't really have much
experience or they got lucky that one
time and then they just package
themselves as a professional live
streamer because of that one viral
video. So they keep charging students
until they either succeed or run out of
money. And if they do succeed, they can
take credit for it as well. They also
collect personal information from you,
which is always a comforting thought. So
far in China right now, there are
already over 60 universities that have
live streaming specific programs. So one
day you might have to prepare for your
kids saying, "Hey mom and dad, I want to
go to China for a live streaming
degree." But after going through all
these live stream training camp scams
and these algorithm masters, I did start
wondering something. What happens to
people who actually dedicate their lives
to it? You know those live stream dance
groups on Doí that stream for hours upon
end, sometimes even like 13 hours a day?
There's a massive dark side to this
industry that not many people talk about
a lot. Besides the camera crew working
like an absolute Chad, going for the
best camera angles for hours upon end,
the dancers and the performers for many
of these groups suffer a pretty dark
reality. Let's take a look at a live
stream dance group called Peach Island.
And they weren't just some random Tik
Tok dance group that was just created in
your home. It was actually created from
people who directly came from China's
idol industry. One of the founders is
Dosia, who also helped produce the
survival show, Chuang. The other founder
is Sidia who also used to be a manager
at SM Entertainment which is renowned in
Korea's K-pop industry and the one who
also launched ASPA. So these weren't
amateurs they knew the idol system in
and out. So within 3 months they
assembled a seven member team. One of
the members was Lu Ying Chun and she's
only 20 years old and she already has
about 1.8 million followers on Doí.
While she was still in university, she
was posting videos about her K-pop
routines and dances on campus which
ended up going viral and blowing her up.
like not like literally, but you know
what I mean. This caused her to make a
decision to drop out of school and join
a Beijing girl group, which eventually
she had to leave because the company's
values didn't really align with her. So,
this is where live streaming entered the
picture for her, which only happened a
couple months back. This is a very
recent story. She said that she always
wanted to become an idol, but she was
just born a bit too late to catch that
massive era of live talent shows on TV.
And if you guys know the struggles about
the K-pop group idol industry, you know
that effort doesn't always equal an
outcome. It's extremely rare that a
group debuts and it's that 0.1% that
usually do. So many people who have
strived to become an idol usually end up
in debt after 8 to 10 years in training.
So live streaming became her alternative
path. And then there's Hooding and her
story honestly feels like something
right out of a sea drama. I mean, the
first time we see her is literally her
with a shoulder injury backstage while
other performers are still doing their
routines. And she's also crying, too.
But the reason she's crying isn't
because of the pain. It's because that
she's afraid she won't be able to dance
again the next day. And it doesn't help
that H's parents didn't approve her
dancing at all. She had to secretly
teach herself hip-hop dances. To make
them happy, she got into university, but
later got the option to study abroad in
South Korea. And while she was there,
she actually secretly signed a 10-year
idol contract without her parents
knowing. Except her parents intervened,
brought her back to China, and it kind
of ruined her whole plan. So instead,
she kept dancing online, posting clips,
and building a following, which
eventually got her to 350,000 followers.
Honestly, props. You know how Asian
parents can be. So when Peach Island saw
her dance videos, they reached out to
recruit her, and she took it because at
25, she already felt that her window was
closing and that live streaming was her
last shot. So fast forward, they started
preparing Peach Island's debut. The
performers rehearsed constantly.
Choreography, facial expressions, stage
positioning, like everything from
morning to night there. It was a grind.
Okay. It was non-stop. And the stress
definitely started showing because even
one of the other performers, Tao, had a
nightmare that nobody would send them
any virtual gifts during stream. Yeah.
And finally, the big moment came.
September 4th, 2025 at 4:49 p.m. Live
stream started. Founder Sidia shouted,
"Go!" All of the performers rushed onto
the stage with the song Love Emergency.
Behind the scenes, you could literally
see the staff constantly refreshing the
Doian page cuz viewership heavily
depends on Doian's algorithm to just
randomly promote your stream. At the
control desk, all the staff were
watching real-time analytics. They were
watching the stream, they were watching
the viewers comments, the gifts. Like,
they were monitoring everything. It's
like watching the stock market. Whenever
the viewer numbers dropped, somebody
would just start panicking and they just
had to start shouting and yelling. They
also quickly replayed Lu Ying Chun's
most popular song to hook in new
viewers. And when the stream ends,
everybody, all the performers, they just
collapse. They just fall to the ground.
Because, mind you, many of these studios
don't even have air conditioning. And
after a couple hours to regain your
sanity, you have to do it all over
again. No more breaks, no more time off
camera for the rest of the day. The next
morning, they realized that they've
already used up their entire inventory
of emotes and dances that they practiced
for. So, the coaches had to rush to
create new dances and even used some
dances that were supposed to debut a
couple weeks later, but they just had to
use them immediately. Meanwhile, Hu was
at the hospital for treatment, but she
still returned for rehearsal. And the
pay is not even that glamorous. The
idols usually just earn a base salary of
8,000 UN and just a small share of the
viewer gifts. Some studios even push the
idols to privately message and DM
wealthy fans to encourage them to gift
them more views or more subs. It starts
getting kind of weird. And sometime the
viewership of a stream can drop because
of lighting, because of how somebody
looks, maybe the camera angles, or it
could be something as random as how
somebody flirts with the viewers, which
pretty much means that luck can matter
way more than talent. And by the third
day, Peach Island's viewership had
dropped to 700 viewers. At one point,
they even got suspended because of a
high heel outfit that apparently
violated the Doian guideline rules. At
their best, the group reached about
7,000 viewers, which which does sound
impressive until you realize top live
streamers gain over a 100,000 live
viewers. So, uh, only a few people
really become actual idols in this
industry. And for her, she still regrets
not taking that Korean training
opportunity a couple years back. She
considered that maybe if she didn't
invest so much into dance group live
streaming on Doí, she could have had a
chance in the K-pop industry. The group
is still alive, but it's not as active
as it once was. And everybody just kind
of went their own separate ways doing
their own thing. For her right now, she
still continues posting and still
continues pursuing this path, which is
great for her. Honestly, you have to
have a really strong mindset after
training for years upon end and getting
almost nothing in return to keep
pursuing something that you enjoy that
is your passion. So, Peach Island was
essentially a gamble and a lifeline for
all of these members. And despite all
the uncertainty, the scams, the training
camps, people still chase the dream of
becoming a live streaming idol because
every once in a while, somebody does
make it big. Even if it's that 0.1%
that is still not 0%. And those success
stories keep the dream alive. And I
mean, it's no walk in the park at all.
You have to make sure you're looking in
the right places and doing the right
things so you don't waste your money or
your time. But even then, it's no
guarantee. So yeah, if you ever see me
dancing on live stream one day, just
know I'm probably being held hostage.